yHAB164_Kazachstania_aerobia 1 yHAB164_Kazachstania_aerobia
Kazachstania_africana 1 Kazachstania_africana
yHAB136_Kazachstania_bromeliacearum 1 yHAB136_Kazachstania_bromeliacearum
yHAB148_Kazachstania_intestinalis 1 yHAB148_Kazachstania_intestinalis
yHAB160_Kazachstania_kunashirensis 1 yHAB160_Kazachstania_kunashirensis
yHAB132_Kazachstania_martiniae 1 yHAB132_Kazachstania_martiniae
Kazachstania_naganishii 1 Kazachstania_naganishii
yHAB153_Kazachstania_rosinii 1 yHAB153_Kazachstania_rosinii
yHAB143_Kazachstania_siamensis 1 yHAB143_Kazachstania_siamensis
yHAB159_Kazachstania_solicola 1 yHAB159_Kazachstania_solicola
yHAB155_Kazachstania_spencerorum 1 yHAB155_Kazachstania_spencerorum
yHAB147_Kazachstania_taianensis 1 yHAB147_Kazachstania_taianensis
yHAB154_Kazachstania_transvaalensis 1 yHAB154_Kazachstania_transvaalensis
yHAB134_Kazachstania_turicensis 1 yHAB134_Kazachstania_turicensis
yHAB133_Kazachstania_unispora 1 yHAB133_Kazachstania_unispora
yHAB158_Kazachstania_viticola 1 yHAB158_Kazachstania_viticola
yHAB166_Kazachstania_yakushimaensis 1 yHAB166_Kazachstania_yakushimaensis
Naumovozyma_castellii 1 Naumovozyma_castellii
Naumovozyma_dairenensis 1 Naumovozyma_dairenensis
yHMPu5000035629_Yueomyces_sinensis 1 yHMPu5000035629_Yueomyces_sinensis
Tetrapisispora_blattae 1 Tetrapisispora_blattae
